I don't collect bindings.
But these are pretty nice, though.
Pictorial croft.
No, I don't collect pictorial croft.
These are for some other reason.
These were part of a— They're all Arabian knights, isn't it?
Yeah, exactly.
These were all part of a collection from the one—rather than the whole group, I took a part of a group.
Two, four, six, eights are about a game.
That you don't see.
That's a great collection.
Look at all the different versions of the Arabian Nights.
Yeah.
See, that doesn't do anything for you, right?
This is... So I'm still in the acquisition mode.
I'm fortunate that I have the resources.
Well, I mean, I think a collection like this also, I don't, I'm not dumb, but I'm also, you know, I think I have the largest collection of quadruplicates.
Of what?
Quadruplicates.
Well, do you do... No, you have Ivy now.
Does she assist you in the acquisitions?
No.
She is a checkpoint for me, as other people are.
And what they try to do is keep me from making... Oh, look at this.
This place was...
20,000 books went out of here already.
These are some.
And it's basic metal shelving.
Yeah, yeah.
There's a little reading room.
Did anybody use these books?
Some people came over.
These are manuscripts, collect a lot of what people did.
These are children's illustrated stories, but on print, on lemon textiles.
I love this, the little library of knowledge.
What is this?
Is that like a little case of books, actually?
Yeah.
Oh, this is lovely.
Oh, that's great.
Isn't that nice?
Scrolls, theaters.
Would you mind if I shoot a couple pictures tomorrow or today even?
Here's a whole group of books.
This is an illustrator of a lady who did 50, 60 books, and this was the doll she used for the illustrations for this.
And I bought the whole thing, and I felt, you know, someday.
Not my style.
Nice.
Beautiful.
Maybe tomorrow, if you don't mind, we can shoot some pictures in here.
These are early materials here.
Lear is another specialty of mine.
Edward Lear, yeah.
I have his original manuscripts.
This is
You have his original manuscripts?
Yeah, yeah.
That's the part I set up.
But that's the duck that she made herself.
Jemima, J-E-M, I am a puddle hyphen duck.
This is her copy of very carefully.
It's her copy.
Yeah, illustrated where her sketches came from.
Wow.
So, you mentioned, like, the British Library.
Do you feel competitive with these other institutions?
No, you can't compete with Library Congress or British Library.
Noah's Ark's I collect, that's another.
I had a son named Noah, who was killed, and he and my wife.
Right.
I'm sorry.
Do you remember them?
Just sort of games, educational toys.
I collect children's cookbooks as a subspecialty, because all my children like to cook.
They're beautiful.
Look at that.
These are gorgeous books, German 18th and 19th centuries.
And these, so many of these came from individual collections.
They weren't acquired.
There's another Ark.
Yeah, those are the Grimm, early Grimm's.
Oh, there's Grimm?
First edition of the first Grimm's.
Really?
Where would that be?
Glasses on.
Okay, this one here.
Justin said this may be the rarest, not the first.
first book and put it out for children.
And we picked that up at an auction for about two percent of what it should be.
Kinder und Haus.
Children and housetales, folktales.
Die Bruder Grimm, 1825.
The earliest ones are 1825.
I just got it.
In fact, the lady who got it from you said, the other lady who was head of the Grimm Museum, she didn't realize it would go for that.
No, she would have bought it for herself.
Yeah.
Bruno Munari, M-U-N-A-R-I, have all of these.
I don't know if, you know, Munari, I think we've shipped out, but, uh, okay.
This is some of the artwork.
So, I'm trying to think of what—these are toys of Munari.
His own?
Yeah.
Is Justin basically fine most of this stuff for you?
No, Munari's something I do.
These are original artwork for these people.
I have—like, I just bought Baron Munkhausen—the real Baron Munkhausen,
M-U-N-C-H-A-U-S-E-N.
Yeah, there was a byron Mauthausen, but he became fictionalized.
But the real one I picked up recently at an auction.
Crookshank?
Yeah.
Craig, Grimm's Fairytales, Crookshank.
Tomorrow maybe I'll take a few notes in this room, okay?
Because I like to have the flavor of titles and things.
Well, if you can show your computer printout of all the stuff.
There were other things, you know, Pete shows which one to look at.
But nothing beats looking at—there's an interactive story long before the invention of the computer.
I bought a lot of them, about twenty of those from the 1700s.
These are fables, again, La Fontaine.
These are by—it happens to be very expensive, but it's by a very famous artist.
I'll tell you what.
This is name and tell, okay?
So you've got to take these with a grain of salt.
Okay.
Can I help?
I'm not an Alice collector, but I bought Lewis and Alice photographs.
The original.
Oh, oh, ones that are published.
About half of them are published.
Well, that's what I've seen as photographs.
Yeah, right.
And that was the way, that was how we got to know these
No, these are Chagall.
But I'm looking for another one, which are the original sketches of these.
And I don't see them here again.
So what I do also is I have another sub-collection of famous artists who did work for children.
and seven dreamers.
And so, I have, uh, the yard.
He did an illustrated music book.
Uh-huh.
Uh, here's Sendak.
I like Sendak.
Did you have everything of his?
I tried, but, uh, I'd like him to do something.
We're friends.
Uh, and we'll,
I'll try to have—maybe have him do something at the library.
Have him do some what?
Do something at the library.
That'd be nice.
I'm hoping he'll talk to me.
I know he's a busy man.
I love him.
He had the Melville connection with him.
Yeah.
So anyway, okay, let's walk around.
Now, is all of this going off to Princeton at some point?
Yeah.
Like, this is a collection.
I have a very, I'm told, a big collection of Scandinavian.
So this is a children's book.
Scandinavian runs the gamut for 50, 60 years of a children's, which I think should be interesting to somebody.
These are counting books, I think.
German.
Scandinavian.
Scandinavian what?
This is magazines.
Magazines, okay.
And these are German counting books.
Oh, pardon the German thing.
Do they strike your fancy, or do they strike my fancy?
So, are you thinking of the library, or are you thinking of, hey, that's cute, I'd like to have that, or is it, I guess it's all... I look first what strikes my fancy, and then what strikes my fancy isn't always what's for the library.
So you've got a couple of Rackhams right here.
Yeah.
Well, when I knew the Starkies, the Rackhams were there, and, uh, he had the original drawings, Rackham drawings, et cetera, and, uh,
But I really don't focus on Rackham.
I've stayed away from Rackham.
No, what are these?
Corinna, Eric, Toby?
Oh, that's right.
Okay, these are my children now.
And I told them they each could take books, whatever they wanted, out of the library up until the time their mother died.
After that, they all go to Princeton.
And I tried to build up a collection for them.
I also tried to duplicate it.
God, you reminded me, because my daughter asked me last night about that.
About what now?
Her books.
These are books that you put together for the children.
Well, like, okay, let's look inside.
This one here.
This is Aunt Bea, and the kids remember that with their mother reading to them.
So here's our name in it.
This had to be a very early book when we were kids.
Oh, that's very nice.
So these are books that are special to the children.
And so you said to the children, listen, this is your chance, you'd better come in.
And all the kids like this, so I had to buy two more coffees.
They loved this book.
And the same is to Minari.
Let's see, it's Minari, let me see.
Are these books that the kids remember?
Oh, Dad, you've got to give me Phantom of the Opera.
Well, my son gave me these, because the illustrator of these, he had to do a painting.
And so he gave me these, and he said, okay, can I have them back with that picture?
You know, he gave me these.
The illustrator is Greg Hildebrand, H.I.O.
Right.
Not in my taste, either.
But your son also likes these, this is Eric, he's a science fan.
But he likes these Rackham's, these Peter Tannins, which are kind of nice.
Yeah, I was surprised at that.
You never, that's another one thing, you never know what children remember.
It's like when I listen to him talk about trips we had, and I said, was I in the car then?
You know, when I was driving.
So I have a completely different thing.
I'm looking forward to seeing a book of Charlie and the Great Glass Elevator.
Well, this is nice.
Anyway.
Charlotte's Web, the movie.
Yeah, right.
The water baby is like Charlotte's Web.
She liked the million books, so I've been accumulating.
Even today, I buy more of it.
And Charlotte likes some of those.
Well, that's by my wife's sister, who's an artist, and this was a .
Again, these are 19th, 20th century books, which I like either because of the illustration or for some other reason.
Australian fairy tales.
Picture books, 20th century.
So there's no, of course, the curse of trying to be comprehensive is that you can never do it all.
Yeah, right.
So what I do is I usually walk in those books for about three, four times a year in New York a year and wipe them out.
And buy what I like.
Well, all of this goes to Princeton, right?
Yeah.
I mean, the toys— I've got to assume these are stuff that we bought within the last two years, a year or two, that didn't make the catalog.
So, that's why we didn't go over.
Well, what are these arts?
Are these things that people made, or do you think they're fantastic?
I mean, was it toys like you could buy, or I don't know if somebody made it.
Right.
Somebody did.
That's a toy you bought in Switzerland.
I remember buying it.
Okay.
And it pulls on wheels.
Which one now?
This one here?
No.
Those craftsmen made.
So, I don't know.
They just couldn't exude them.
Really?
No, it's on mine, I guess.
Anyway.
You mean at Preston?
No, here.
Oh, here?
These are picture books, Chinese, Japanese.
One of the things I really am interested in is, oh, say, this one here.
Japanese and Japanese and what they look like and how they, in a sense, look at the sum that I can figure out.
Okay, here's one.
Western dress.
counting early raincoats from the folk to the other, the advent of—this is way back when.
These are lovely.
These look at the ask.
They must be here.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And not very well known.
Now, where did you pick these up?
In Japan?
Some in Japan.
Personally, you've got them all.
Yeah, yeah, and some here.
So, you're the Chief Acquisitor, right?
Yeah, yeah.
The whole game, you know, early game dip.
This is really spectacular.
Well, I'm so glad we came in here.
And all the great stuff, of course, is at Princeton now, right?
Right.
Yeah.
You're looking at just recent, you know, ABCs, English.
So these are just the recent acquisitions?
I think so, mostly, yeah.
When do you plan a visit to Princeton?
It's a Jewish regatta.
Uh-huh.
So we do that backwards.
But it's from Japanese converts.
were converted from the time of the nuclear fusion.
And Japanese had never realized that there was such a thing.
There were 30,000 troops in Japan, converted after the explosion.
Really?
And if they all wanted to go to Israel, Israel wouldn't take them.
Very funny.
It's funny, isn't it?
Anyway, they're all in a long view here in Japan.
Yeah.
How many different countries do you think you have represented?
No idea.
A lot.
Like Nigeria, I have people send them to South Africa.
Today, in transition, I'm really interested in.
These are all dealer catalogs.
Is everything purchased, or is the people giving things?
Sometimes.
I never like to be as bad.
There's going to be an exhibition of these arts?
I think so.
Here in L.A.?
Yeah.
Do you know when?
Usually, I don't know.
Curita has to come down and photograph them.
I think in 90, I don't know, eight, nine, I don't know.
It's quite a remarkable collection.
It really is, and then it's really been like it.
Hi, that was Anne.
She would like you to call her before you leave.
Well, what would be good for you tomorrow?
I don't think we need more than two hours, max, an hour and a half.
An hour and a half is about nothing I'd like to give you.
I think an hour and a half max, and I'd like to shoot some pictures of you and maybe in here, if that's okay.
I got a 10 o'clock hair appointment.
I got a luncheon appointment at 12.
and a large Indian collection.
Say that again, please.
I'm interested in how American Indians, the perceptions changed from 100 years ago or 50 years ago to today, and how romanticized or un-romanticized.
Like, I have a book, which is from the 1870s, of an Indian chief, I think one of the Algonquin tribe, who did for his kids on birch bark and put 24 animals in the woods.
in the Algonquin language, translated by a minister.
It's a unique copy.
I would think so.
That was the language that Eliot did the Bible in.
The Eliot Indian Bible was in the Algonquin language.
Yes.
I have, I think, the primer for that.
Is that right?
Wow.
Fortunately, I had one illustration, otherwise I wouldn't have taken it.
manuscripts for Potter.
This is quite remarkable.
And this is just stuff that hasn't made the trip yet, right?
This is stuff that hasn't made the trip.
Right.
What's in the boxes over there?
I can't read it from here.
The clamshells, huh?
A pamphlet had things like the ones that used to be in the entries.
Not everything is old or rare or valuable, you know.
No, it's a library.
This is intended to be used.
I think that's what we were driving at.
Did you ever come in here alone, by yourself, and just kind of... I think my wife, she, my recent... I'm newly married, so she came, and she sits down, and she reads German, so she just really, you know, bikes and stuff, and
Did you ever, when it was Phil, just kind of come in here and just sit around with the stuff?
More so when I had it in the house.
I had a library in the house, which was specially built.
And I think I also had a gas alarm system, which my wife thought was personally built for her.
That's why I thought.
Suffocates.
I always thought you were trying to kill me with a person.
She needed a person.
A person.
I know it.
Right.
I know, but some of these catalogs here.
I call it auction catalogs myself.
Anyway, I guess that's great.
Well, so what would be a good time for you to do?
Even an hour.
I think we could even make do with an hour.
How about, I can do it from 11 to 12, then I'm out of action.
11 to 12.
I could do it from...
2.30 to 3, or 3 to 5.
I think I'm pretty good.
Okay, why don't we schedule the afternoon?
I could probably do some other things tomorrow.
Okay, okay.
Why don't we say 3 o'clock?
Oh, I'm sorry.
Josephine Goes Traveling by Mrs. H.C.
Craddock, C-R-A-D-O-C-K, pictured by Honor C.
Appleton, meaning what?
That's the illustrator.
That's the illustrator, and these are little Josephine's dollies, and these are the actual dolls that are modeled for them, and the rest are in the box.
And what's the date on these, early 20th century dolls?
They're the 20s.
They got the teens in the 20s.
And these are British illustrators?
They're very popular British series.
And those are the dolls?
And these are the dolls.
Where did you find them?
They were purchased as an archive.
I see.
I have a lot of black material.
I didn't see any here, but it may have been sent.
It's been sent.
But a lot of prejudicial material.
I was going to ask that when you were talking about the Indian stuff.
And then when I came in, you were talking about a title of a book that had the word nigger in it.
And I said, wow.
So again, how the perception of black has changed in the white society and how it is also in the black society.
Well, sure.
They probably called themselves Negroes and everything, you know.
Well, that's great.
I think I'm going to knock on the steps.
Let's start again, please.
You set up a foundation.
I set up a fund, not a foundation.
A fund, I'm sorry.
To buy Greek children's books for the Greeks, for the Gernalius Library.
It's a library in Greece, which I'm associated with.
And...
It's very difficult.
There are no Greek children's books saved.
You know, the paper was so poor from 1822.
And before 1822 was saved, because it was Turkish.
That's right.
And during the war, I'm looking, I'm doing it, you know, how the children, you know, fell between the cracks or fell, period.
And so I've set up this fund, and it's very difficult to buy children's books.
And it's operating out of Greece?
Yeah, it's in Athens, yeah.
And how's the joy?
I haven't been able to spend the money.
I'll see you.